face be Destin welcome back to smarter
every day we're back with Phil Torres
entomologist and about two years ago I
created the video about butterflies that
about we're eating a fish the pits have
taken down the fray that's not what was
happening at all is it what are they
doing
it's called puddling basically they're
drinking the minerals in the sand to get
salt all right so here's the deal this
is the Tambopata River which feeds into
the Amazon River it's a little bit
different than Alabama but right over
there if you look really close you can
see there are some yellow butterflies
what we're going to do is we're going to
take this high-speed camera see if we
can sneak up on them and get high-speed
of all those butterflies cuddling see
what it looks like
we should really sneak up close enough
okay it's going to take me a second to
get over there so let's talk when you
come up on a big group butterflies like
this they're almost all male this is why
when I fertilize my wife I provide her
selflessly with some liquid that has
little swimming things in it in my
genetic code but male butterflies burn
much more heavily invested than this
they create what's called a
spermatophore now that's basically just
a structure that has all their swimming
things in it but it also has nutrients
that they've collected and saved for her
like sodium and things like that
you see when a female lays eggs on a
leaf it requires a lot of sodium and so
he's helping out with the resource
budget by giving her the spermatophore
that she can draw from with her body
it's pretty cool so when I go over here
and we kick up all these butterflies I
just almost hear a bunch of little angry
voices saying hey we're kids you see
we're trying to gather nutrients first
spermatophores here anyway I'm almost
there let's check it out in high speed
all right my legs in a hole I'm not
really gonna be able to move here you
want to walk up on the net side and
scare a little bit you got it three it
let's go
awesome nice
all right that's it if you want to see
the entire video with the timecode so
you can figure out how many butterflies
are flying at what time I'll leave a
link right here so go click on that and
you can go look at that video otherwise
that's it no it is right it's not Walker
do you know how much work it was to make
this for you you don't want to play
along to you now
you
move it